Add a mechanism to avoid Deadlock (#961)
smartdevicelink/sdl_evolution: proposals/NNNN-Avoid-Deadlock.md

> # Add a mechanism to avoid Deadlock

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Add a Mechanism to Avoid Deadlock
```

* Proposal: [SDL-NNNN](NNNN-Avoid-Deadlock.md)
* Author: [Yuki Shoda](https://github.com/Yuki-Shoda)

> * Status: Awaiting review

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Status: **Awaiting review**
```

* Impacted Platforms: [iOS]

## Introduction

> This proposal is to avoid deadlock by adding a mechanism that stops AudioStreaming under certain conditions when the app on HS side moves to background.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This proposal is to avoid deadlock by adding a mechanism that stops Audio Streaming under certain conditions when the app on HS side moves to background.
```
Also, can you please specify what "HS" refers to here?

Reviewer: Can you please change the abbreviation "HS" to the full term?  You can then include "(HS)" after, so that you can use "HS" throughout the rest of the proposal.

Reviewer 2: I've changed the "HS" to "Handset (HS)" in the introduction.

> This proposal is to avoid deadlock by adding a mechanism that stops Audio Streaming under certain conditions when the app on Handset(HS) side moves to background.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This proposal is to avoid deadlock by adding a mechanism that stops Audio Streaming under certain conditions when the app on Handset (HS) side moves to background.
```

## Motivation

> When using SDL Core 4.5,  and SDL iOS (v6.3.1 or later), a deadlock may occur when Audio Streaming is played while Video Streaming is stopped.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using SDL Core 4.5, and SDL iOS (v6.3.1 or later), a deadlock may occur when Audio Streaming is played while Video Streaming is stopped.
```

> In a combination of HU, which uses SDL Core4.5,  and sdl_ios (v6.3.1 or later), a DeadLock may occur when AudioStreaming is played while VideoStreaming is stopped.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using SDL Core 4.5,  and SDL iOS (v6.3.1 or later), a deadlock may occur when Audio Streaming is played while Video Streaming is stopped.
```

> Due to this support (https://github.com/smartdevicelink/sdl_ios/pull/1235/) in the current SDL iOS (v6.3.1 or later),  Audio Streaming continues to play when the app on HS side moves to Background.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Due to this support (https://github.com/smartdevicelink/sdl_ios/pull/1235/) in the current SDL iOS (v6.3.1 or later),  Audio Streaming continues to play when the app on HS side moves to background.
```

> Due to this support (https://github.com/smartdevicelink/sdl_ios/pull/1235/) in the current sdl_ios (v6.3.1 or later),  AudioStreaming continues to play when the app on HS side moves to Background.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Due to this support (https://github.com/smartdevicelink/sdl_ios/pull/1235/) in the current SDL iOS (v6.3.1 or later),  Audio Streaming continues to play when the app on HS side moves to Background.
```
Please specify "HS" here as well, thanks!

For this reason (#1235), a deadlock may occur.

> To avoid the deadlock, it is desirable to add a mechanism where the protocol version is judged by the proxy and stops Audio Streaming when the app on HS side move to background.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To avoid the deadlock, it is desirable to add a mechanism where the protocol version is judged by the proxy and stops Audio Streaming when the app on HS side moves to background.
```

> To avoid the deadlock, it is desirable to add a mechanism where the protocol version is judged by the Proxy and stops AudioStreaming when the app on HS side move to background.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To avoid the deadlock, it is desirable to add a mechanism where the protocol version is judged by the proxy and stops Audio Streaming when the app on HS side move to background.
```
Please specify the "HS" reference

## Proposed solution

> The protocol version is checked by the proxy, when the app on the HS side moves to background. If the protocol version is 5.0.0 or older, then AudioStreaming is stopped.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The protocol version is checked by the proxy, when the app on the HS side moves to background. If the protocol version is 5.0.0 or older, then Audio Streaming is stopped.
```

## Potential downsides
None

## Impact on existing code

> There is only changes in code due to the added function, and does not affect the existing code.

Reviewer: Please advise on impact of added code to SDL iOS repository.  For example, will this require a minor version change?

Reviewer 2: Change the sentence because this proposal need to require changing of the minor version.

## Alternatives considered
- Update the modified SDL Core to HU

> -> It will be difficult because update to HU is not realistic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-> It will be difficult because updating the HU is not realistic.
```

- Add an API, which sets whether to use AudioStreaming on the app side or not, to the library and supported by each app vendor

> -> Deadlock will still occur in unsupported app because there is no enforcement force.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-> Deadlock will still occur in unsupported apps because there is no way to enforce.
```
